Final Project for ITF Manual Testing Course
Introduction
The purpose of this project is to use general testing concepts learned at the course and apply them in practice on a live application.
Application under test: https://opensource-demo.orangehrmlive.com/
OrangeHRM is a comprehensive Human Resource Management (HRM) System that captures all the essential functionalities required for any enterprise. OrangeHRM offers many modules such as Recruitment, Onboarding, Employee Management, Performance Management, PTO/Leave Management, Career Development, Learning Management, and many more that help you to manage all requirements in the employee life cycle. Orange HRM it can be used by anyone in the organization.
Module Documentation:
https://www.orangehrm.com/assets/Files/Complete-Administrative-User-Guide.pdf?url=/Files/Complete-Administrative-User-Guide.pdf
API Documentation: https://orangehrm.github.io/orangehrm-api-doc/
Project Overview
This project is performed upon the Personal Details module. The Personal Details module contains all of an employee's personal information and data. This is an incredibly important page as the data contained in this page is used for other key modules throughout the OrangeHRM system. It is crucial that this page is filled in completely and accurately as possible.
The project will be split into 2 sections:  testing section and SQL section.
Tools used: JIRA, Zephyr Squad, Postman, MySQL Workbench.
1.	Testing Section

1.1.	Test planning
The test plan describes the testing approach, the overall objective and scope of testing the Personal Details module from the OrangeHRM application. 
1.1.1.	Test Objectives
The objective of the test is to verify that the functionalities of Personal Details module work according to the specifications. Conduct testing to verify the quality of the website and ensure that the website is released without any defects.
1.1.2.	Functional specifications
The functionality of this module spans through the entire system, making information available anywhere, anytime.
The personal details section can be accessed from the My Info module.
The personal details of an employee can be added, edited and deleted in this section.
You can enter personal information by clicking on “edit”.
You can edit the following:
•	last name - mandatory - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	middle name - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	first name - mandatory - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	nick name - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	employee id - generated by system when employee is added - input that accepts 10 characters length maximum
•	other id - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	driver’s license number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	license expiry date – date picker in the format YYYY-MM-DD
•	SSN number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	SIN number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	nationality - select from a list of pre-defined nationalities
•	marital status - select from the drop down - with the following 3 options: single, married, other
•	date of birth – date picker in the format YYYY-MM-DD
•	gender - click on the relevant gender (male/female)
•	military service - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
•	smoker - if the employee is a smoker click on the box
Once you have completed click ‘'Save”.
You can also add blood type from a drop - down menu and add/edit/delete attachments.
1.1.3.	Roles and persons allocated 
Project Manager – Ioana Barsan
Product Owner – Mihai Turcu
Software Developer – Vlad Oancea
QA Engineer – Matyas Melinda
1.1.4.	Entry criteria
•	Planning phase has been completed
•	Functional specifications are defined and approved
•	Test cases are developed and ready
•	System testing phase has been successful completed

1.1.5.	Exit criteria
•	All tests have been executed
•	All critical test cases are passed
•	All critical and high priority bugs have been fixed and closed
•	Deadline has been reached

1.1.6.	Test scope
All the feature of Personal Details module defined in specific requirements needs to be tested: Functional testing, GUI and API testing 
Non-functional testing like stress and performance testing are not in scope.
1.1.7.	Risks detected

Project risks: testing environment is unavailable, short time frame available for testing, lack of communication with team members
Product risks: lack of dismissive button (cancel/reset), which prevents unwanted changes to the system

1.2.	Test monitoring and control

Different monitoring reports were generated in order to track current progress of testing activity and to take corrective actions if needed.  The following reports were generated on 15th of September 2022.

 
 
 
1.3.	Test Analysis

Based on the requirements of Personal Details Module the following test conditions were identified:
•	Complete only required fields and verify that the personal details are saved/updated
•	Complete all fields and verify that the personal details are saved/updated
•	Leave required fields empty and verify that personal details cannot be saved/updated
•	Edit editable fields and validate that the fields are edited/saved/updated
•	Edit editable fields and check that changes can be canceled/reset 
•	Upload supported file/files and verify that attachment/attachments are saved
•	Upload supported file/files and check that these can be modified and deleted

1.4.	 Test design
The following test cases were derived from test conditions and were created in Zephyr Squad. Test design techniques used for determining test cases were boundary analysis, equivalence partitioning and use case testing.
 
 
 
 

The detailed test cases with steps can be viewed here:
For the Personal Details API, the following checklist was created:
1.5.	Test implementation
All the pre-requisites are handled to start the test execution:
•	Demo environment is functional: https://opensource-demo.orangehrmlive.com/
•	Login details are given: Username : Admin, Password : admin123
•	Cycle summary is created in Zephyr Squad
•	Test cases are added to the cycle summary
•	Postman collection with the employee personal details API methods is created
•	Authorization token is created for accessing the API
1.6.	Test Execution

Test cases were executed on the created cycle summary:
The tests that failed were reported in form of bugs.
The following bugs were found and created:

•	“Today” at date of birth is clickable
•	The calendar for date of birth lists future dates
•	The calendar for Date of Birth lists dates only 52 years backward
•	The calendar for Driver License expiry date lists dates just until 2022
•	Cancel button is missing
The complete bug reports can be found here:
API tests were executed based on the checklist. The API collections can be found here:
Complete regression testing is performed after bugs are fixed.
1.7.	Test Completion
Testing phase is complete, all exit criteria have been met. The product is enough stable. All pending bugs will be fixed later.
•	89 test cases were planned for execution and all of them were executed
•	85 test cases have passed and 4 have failed
•	95.51% of test cases have passed and 4.49% of test cases have failed
•	5 bugs were found, from which 4 with medium priority and 1 with high priority


The following execution chart was generated:

 
The traceability matrix was generated and can be found here: 

2. SQL Section




