# Final Project for ITF Manual Testing Course

# Introduction

The purpose of this project is to use general testing concepts learned at the course and apply them in practice on a live application.

Application under test: https://opensource-demo.orangehrmlive.com/

OrangeHRM is a comprehensive Human Resource Management (HRM) System that captures all the essential functionalities required for any enterprise. OrangeHRM offers many modules such as Recruitment, Onboarding, Employee Management, Performance Management, PTO/Leave Management, Career Development, Learning Management, and many more that help you to manage all requirements in the employee life cycle. Orange HRM it can be used by anyone in the organization.

Module Documentation:
https://www.orangehrm.com/assets/Files/Complete-Administrative-User-Guide.pdf?url=/Files/Complete-Administrative-User-Guide.pdf

API Documentation: https://orangehrm.github.io/orangehrm-api-doc/

# Project Overview

This project is performed upon the Personal Details module. The Personal Details module contains all of an employee's personal information and data. This is an incredibly important page as the data contained in this page is used for other key modules throughout the OrangeHRM system. It is crucial that this page is filled in completely and accurately as possible.

The project will be split into 2 sections:  testing section and SQL section.

Tools used: JIRA, Zephyr Squad, Postman, MySQL Workbench.

# 1.	Testing Section

## 1.1.	Test planning

The test plan describes the testing approach, the overall objective and scope of testing the Personal Details module from the OrangeHRM application. 

### 1.1.1.	Test Objectives

The objective of the test is to verify that the functionalities of Personal Details module work according to the specifications. Conduct testing to verify the quality of the website and ensure that the website is released without any defects.

### 1.1.2.	Functional specifications

The functionality of this module spans through the entire system, making information available anywhere, anytime.

The personal details section can be accessed from the My Info module.

The personal details of an employee can be added, edited and deleted in this section.

You can enter personal information by clicking on “edit”.

You can edit the following:
*	last name - mandatory - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	middle name - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	first name - mandatory - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	nick name - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	employee id - generated by system when employee is added - input that accepts 10 characters length maximum
*	other id - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	driver’s license number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	license expiry date – date picker in the format YYYY-MM-DD
*	SSN number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	SIN number - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	nationality - select from a list of pre-defined nationalities
*	marital status - select from the drop down - with the following 3 options: single, married, other
*	date of birth – date picker in the format YYYY-MM-DD
*	gender - click on the relevant gender (male/female)
*	military service - input that accepts 30 characters length maximum
*	smoker - if the employee is a smoker click on the box

Once you have completed click ‘'Save”.

You can also add blood type from a drop - down menu and add/edit/delete attachments.



